# Code.Fun.Do++
We have an idea to manage floods using modern technology and imaging. In case of floods, it would be very useful if we had an indication as to which areas of the city are severely waterlogged and those which are not. It would help a lot of people who are stranded and want to go home to find a way which is safe and not waterlogged. The basic idea is to map the whole city before the disaster and form a contour map of the city seeing where the troughs and peaks are and get a general idea as to where the water will settle and where the flow of water will be fast, etc. This can be achieved using a drone which will map different parts of the city hovering at a certain height and determine the nature of terrain (forming a contour map) using a camera and image processing and few other sensors for precision. Basically, the gradient, troughs, depths of troughs, peaks and depths of peaks would give us useful information to find where water will eventually be based on where it rains how much and connection of a trough to other troughs. So, based on rain pour in each area we would be able to predict where water would be logged and to what height. This will serve as a very useful navigation system in case of a flood (like the one that occurred in Chennai a few years back). As this method allows us to know where water would get logged, it would be helpful to know which roads would be accessible and usable. Integrating this contour map with city's water drains and their water carrying capacities and other factors such as release of water by dams will allow us to make this model a lot more practical and will allow us to predict how much time it would take for the water in an area to drain. This will allow the disaster management services to significantly optimize their efficiency during such times of crisis. Moreover such maps will allow us to maximize the availability of relief services and materials in places prone to floods.  So, if this system is implemented efficiently it will give us a lot of crucial information regarding flooding particular to certain areas. The ultimate aim is to make use of modern technology and use it to effectively tackle a flood by looking at it area wise. By determining area specific flooding and damage caused, we can make use of the available relief resources efficiently to the best use of people in distress.
